1. Simple :- 
Java was designed to be easy for a professional programmer to learn and use effectively.
It’s simple and easy to learn if you already know the basic concepts of Object Oriented Programming.
Java has removed many complicated and rarely-used features, for example, explicit pointers, operator overloading, etc.

2.Secure :-
Java provides a “firewall” between a networked application and your computer.
When a Java Compatible Web browser is used, downloading can be done safely without fear of viral infection or malicious intent.
Java achieves this protection by confining a Java program to the Java execution environment and not allowing it to access other parts of the computer.


3.Portable :- 
Java Provides a way to download programs dynamically to all the various types of platforms connected to the Internet.
Java is portable because of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). The JVM is an abstract computing machine that provides a 
runtime environment for Java programs to execute. The JVM provides a consistent environment for Java programs to run on, 
regardless of the underlying hardware and operating system. This means that a Java program can be written on one device and
 run on any other device with a JVM installed, without any changes or modifications.

 4.Robust :-
 It provides many features that make the program execute reliably in a variety of environments.
Java is a strictly typed language. It checks code both at compile time and runtime.
Java takes care of all memory management problems with garbage collection.
Java, with the help of exception handling, captures all types of serious errors and eliminates any risk of crashing the system.

5.Architecural Neutral :- 
Java language and Java Virtual Machine helped in achieving the goal of “write once; run anywhere, any time, forever.”
Changes and upgrades in operating systems, processors and system resources will not force any changes in Java Programs.

6.High Performance :- 
Java performance is high because of the use of bytecode.
The bytecode was used so that it can be easily translated into native machine code.

7.Distributed :- 
Java is designed to create distributed applications on networks.
Java applications can access remote objects on the Internet as easily as they can do in the local system.
Java enables multiple programmers at multiple remote locations to collaborate and work together on a single project.
Java is designed for the distributed environment of the Internet because it handles TCP/IP protocols.


8.Dynamic :-Java is capable of linking in new class libraries, methods, and objects.
Java programs carry with them substantial amounts of run-time type information that 
is used to verify and resolve accesses to objects at runtime. This makes it possible to
 dynamically link code in a safe and expedient manner.
